.TH dumpseed 1 "16 September 1997"
.IX dumpseed
.SH NAME
dumpseed - dump SEED records from a file or telemetry channel. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dumpseed
.B -t
.B -d
.B -e
.B -q
.B -I
.B -b 
.IR size
.B -p
.IR tcp port
.B -r
.IR buffer
.B -f
.IR format
.B -c
.IR channel
.B -s
.IR selectfile
.B -P
.IR pidfile
.I file/host
.SH DESCRIPTION
Contents are dumped onto the standard output.  It can decode blockettes
and several other internal data formats such as Steim-1 and Steim-2.
.IR Dumpseed
is also capable of attaching to LISS-1 data ports and receive
incoming telemetry and process it as well.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The different flags specify various decoding options and specify
if a file will be decoded or a telemetry port will be read.
.TP
.B -t
Read from a telemetry port.  
Main argument becomes a host name (an ip address is acceptable too).
Otherwise a filename will be expected.
.TP
.B -d
Data records will be decoded into samples and printed out.  The
decoder type is determined automatically if a SEED blockette 1000 
is present.  If there is no blockette 1000, 
.IR dumpseed
will use the default supplied to the 
.B -f 
option.  If this is not used, 
.IR dumpseed
will default to 
.I Steim-1
format.
If the 
.B -I
switch is used (ignore blockettes), any blockette 1000s present
will be ignored and the other defaults will be used.
.TP
.B -e
Output will not be presented in a report format, but instead will
be produced in an easily parsable ASCII file (the ASL BDF format).
.TP
.B -q
.IR dumpseed
will quiet some chatty text which is written to the terminal
during operations.  This helps with program which want to parse
the output.
.TP
.B -I
Ignore any blockettes present in the record and do not dump them
out.  This is helpful if the decoding of a particular blockette causes the
program to break.
.TP
.B -b
.IR size
.br
Override the default record sizes.  This corresponds with the
SEED
.I logical record size.
The default record size for files is 4096, the default for telemetry
is 512.
.TP
.B -r
.IR buffer-size
.br
Override the default buffer sizes.  This corresponds with the
SEED
.I physical record size.
This affects how much data can be read on one read operation.
This is usually only useful on tape type devices which have
physical block sizes.  The default for this is also 4096.
.TP
.B -p
.IR port
.br
The port number on the LISS-1 compatible server that 
.IR dumpseed
will attach to.  This port is a TCP socket.  The default
if unspecified is 4000.
.TP
.B -f
.IR format
.br
Change the default format from
.BR STEIM1 .
Possible values are 
.BR ASRO ,
.BR SRO ,
.BR RSTN ,
.BR CDSN ,
.BR 16-BIT ,
.BR 32-BIT ,
.BR HARV ,
.BR SEED ,
.BR SEEDS1 ,
.BR STEIM ,
.BR STEIM1 ,
.BR SEEDS2 ,
.BR STEIM2 ,
.BR SEEDS3 ,
.BR STEIM3
and
.BR LOG .
.TP
.B -c
.IR channel
.br
This permits the user to select a given SEED channel to be
processed.  Network, Station and Location are ignored in this
comparison.  For more detail selection, use 
.B -s
below.
.TP
.B -s
.IR selectfile
.br
Allows complex selection to be performed on the input data
stream.  Combinations of Network, Station, Location, Channel
and time-range can be used.  Please see the 
.BR selectfile (4)
manual page for information on how to construct a select file.
.TP
.B -P
.IR pidfile
.br
Keep a watchdog file.
When selected, a filename of
.RI /tmp/ pidfile .tmp
(where pidfile is
the value specified here) is written out every time a record
is processed.  This is usually only useful when running in
telemetry mode.  There are several pathological socket I/O
situations that
.B dumpseed
might not be able to recover from.  A separate watchdog
process can keep an eye on a 
.B dumpseed
process via this file and kill it and restart it if it
becomes hung.  The pidfile contains the pid of the process
and the epochal time when a record was last processed.  An
initial entry is placed in the file when the program is
started.  This will keep the watchdog from killing the
program before any input comes in.
.PP
The argument is either a host name (or IP address) or a list of
files.  If multiple files are specified,
.IR dumpseed
will process each file in sequence.  An argument of a single hyphen
(-) will cause
.IR dumpseed
to read its input from its standard-in.
.SH EXAMPLES
Get data from a file and display to the screen:
.RS
.B "example% dumpseed data.seed"
.RE
.LP
Get data from the COLA LISS-1 server:
.RS
.B "example% dumpseed -t -p 4060 asl2.cr.usgs.gov"
.RE
.SH HISTORY
.IR dumpseed
evolved from a SEED test program on the VAX and then to a 
general utility on the Sun DCC system.  Later the telemetry
support was added.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR getpid(2) ,
.BR time(2) ,
.BR selectfile(4) ,
.BR BDF(4) ,
.BR SEED(4) 
.SH AUTHOR
Public Domain Software by Scott Halbert - Allied Signal Technical
Services Corporation under contract to the Albuquerque Seismological
Laboratory - United States Geological Survey - Department of Interior,
United States, North American Continent, Earth/Sol 3, Sagitarius Arm of
Milky Way Galaxy.
