.TH selectfile 4 "16 September 1997"
.IX selectfile
.SH NAME
selectfile - selection criteria for seismic data
.SH DESCRIPTION
Select files permit a user to define exact matching descriptions
that will be used by various programs to pick which data records
(or other seismic information) will be targetted from a data stream.
.LP
Select files have many parts.  The basic part of a select file is
called a 
.IR chain .  
Most select files only have one 
.IR chain .  
A single 
.I chain 
contains descriptions of what 
network/station/location/channel/date-time
groupings that are to be considered interesting for selection.
.LP
Multiple 
.I chains 
can combined together to make multiple requests
in one select file.  
.LP
Individual 
.I chains 
can be tagged.  These tags permit the user
to label individual requests.  These tags can then be presented
back to the user (by software that supports this feature) along with 
actual data, permitting the user to make very complex requests
and build post-processing programs that understand  and exploit 
the nature of the original requests.
.SH SYNTAX
Selectfiles are comprised of any number of selection
specifications that appear one to a line.  
.SS "STATION={+ or -}{network code}/{station code}"
.LP
The station selector adds (+) or removes (-) stations from the list of
stations to be considered for selection.  
.I "Network and station codes may include wildcards."
If the +/- codes are omitted, they will default to add (+).
Multiple network/station lines can be present to specify
a complex set of stations.  
.LP
This creates two sets of stations (possibily with wildcards): the
.I "add-set"
and the 
.IR "subtract-set" .
Data selected will be the set
specified by the
.I union
of the all network/stations in the 
.IR "add-set" ,
with the 
.I union
of all of the network/stations in the
.I "subtract-set"
subtracted.  This resultant set is called the 
.IR "station-set" .
.SS "CHANNEL={+ or -}{location code}/{channel code}"
.LP
This channel selector adds (+) or removes (-) stations from the list
of stations to be considered for selection.
.I "Location and channel codes may include wildcards."
If the +/- codes are omitted, they will default to add (+).
.LP
This creates two sets of channels (possibily with wildcards): the
.I "add-set"
and the 
.IR "subtract-set" .
Data selected will be the set
specified by the
.I union
of the all location/channels in the 
.IR "add-set" ,
with the 
.I union
of all of the location/channels in the
.I "subtract-set"
subtracted.  This resultant set is called the 
.IR "channel-set" .
.SS "DATE={start-date}/{end-date}"
.LP
This selector adds date ranges into the selection sets.
DCC date formats are of the following form:
.IR MMMM,JJJ,HH:MM:SS.MMM ,
where MMMM is the year (with century), JJJ is the Day-of-the-Year (Jan 1 = 1),
HH is the hour (0-23), MM is minutes (0-59), SS is seconds (0-59), and
MMM is the fractional milliseconds (0-999).  The date can be truncated
at any punctuation mark after the date.
.LP
The 
.I union
of all of the dates selectors specified result in the 
.IR "date-set" .  
If no dates are selected, the
.I "date-set" 
set defaults to all.
.SS "TAG=tag1,tag2,tag3..."
The tag selector adds labels to a chain.  This information can be
returned with the resultant data when it is selected.  It is
possible that multiple chains will select the same record, in this
case, multiple tags might be returned (NOT IMPLEMENTED YET).
.SS chains
Individual
.I chains
are separated by a single forward slash (/) character which
appears in the left column by itself.  This separator can
be omitted if there is only one chain present.  The end of file is
specified with a double forward slash (//).
.SH "SET THEORY"
The records which are determined to be
.I interesting
by the selection algorithm for each
.I chain
are the set
.I intersection
of the
.IR "station-set" ,
the
.IR "channel-set" ,
and the
.IR "date-set" .
The data returned by the entire request for the select file
is the 
.I union
of all sets returned by each
.IR chain .
.SH EXAMPLES
Select all long period data from all IRIS/USGS stations (except ANMO) for 1994:
.LP
.RS
.B "STATION=+IU/*"
.br
.B "STATION=-IU/ANMO"
.br
.B "CHANNEL=+*/L*"
.br
.B "DATE=1994,1/1995,1"
.br
.B "TAG=MAIN"
.br
.B "//"
.RE
.LP
All of the data from ANMO (no TAGs):
.LP
.RS
.br
.B "STATION=+IU/ANMO"
.br
.B "CHANNEL=+*/*"
.br
.B "//"
.RE
.LP
A complex multi-chain query involving multiple events and windows.
.LP
.RS
.br
.B "STATION=+IU/ANMO"
.br
.B "CHANNEL=+*/LH*"
.br
.B "DATE=1997,200,20:00/1997,201,12:00"
.br
.B "TAG=EVENT1_ANMO_LH"
.br
.B "/"
.br
.B "STATION=+IU/ANMO"
.br
.B "CHANNEL=+*/B*"
.br
.B "DATE=1997,201,05:00/1997,201,06:00"
.br
.B "TAG=EVENT1_ANMO_BH"
.br
.B "/"
.br
.B "STATION=+IU/KIP"
.br
.B "CHANNEL=+*/LH*"
.br
.B "DATE=1997,200,20:00/1997,201,12:00"
.br
.B "TAG=EVENT1_KIP_LH"
.br
.B "/"
.br
.B "STATION=+IU/KIP"
.br
.B "CHANNEL=+*/B*"
.br
.B "DATE=1997,201,05:30/1997,201,06:30"
.br
.B "TAG=EVENT1_KIP_BH"
.br
.B "//"
.RE
.SH HISTORY
.IR selectfile
evolved from an earlier format on the VAX DCC.  It was
augmented to add support for network codes and locations
when it was brought to the SUN.  The TAG facility was
developed to support the creation of event SEED volumes.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B dumpseed(1) 
.SH AUTHOR
Public Domain Software by Scott Halbert - Allied Signal Technical
Services Corporation under contract to the Albuquerque Seismological
Laboratory - United States Geological Survey - Department of Interior,
United States, North American Continent, Earth/Sol 3, Sagitarius Arm of
Milky Way Galaxy.
