.TH "NMXP_DATA_PROCESS" 3 "Mon Jan 24 2011" "Version 1.2.4" "libnmxp" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
NMXP_DATA_PROCESS \- 
.PP
Parameter structure for functions that process data.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <nmxp_data.h>\fP
.SS "Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int32_t \fBkey\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIChannel Key. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char \fBnetwork\fP [NMXP_DATA_NETWORK_LENGTH]"
.br
.RI "\fINetwork code. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char \fBstation\fP [NMXP_DATA_STATION_LENGTH]"
.br
.RI "\fIStation code. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char \fBchannel\fP [NMXP_DATA_CHANNEL_LENGTH]"
.br
.RI "\fIChannel code. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int32_t \fBpacket_type\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPacket type. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int32_t \fBx0\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIFirst sample. It is significant only if x0n_significant != 0. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int32_t \fBxn\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILast sample. It is significant only if x0n_significant != 0. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int32_t \fBx0n_significant\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIDeclare if xn significant. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int32_t \fBoldest_seq_no\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIOldest Sequence number. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int32_t \fBseq_no\fP"
.br
.RI "\fISequence number. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "double \fBtime\fP"
.br
.RI "\fITime first sample. Epochs. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int * \fBpDataPtr\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIArray of samples. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int32_t \fBnSamp\fP"
.br
.RI "\fINumber or samples. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int32_t \fBsampRate\fP"
.br
.RI "\fISample rate. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBtiming_quality\fP"
.br
.RI "\fITiming quality for functions send_raw*() \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char \fBquality_indicator\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIQuality indicator D, R, Q or M, new in Seed 2.4. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Parameter structure for functions that process data. 
.SH "Member Data Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int32_t \fBNMXP_DATA_PROCESS::key\fP"
.PP
Channel Key. 
.SS "char \fBNMXP_DATA_PROCESS::network\fP[NMXP_DATA_NETWORK_LENGTH]"
.PP
Network code. 
.SS "char \fBNMXP_DATA_PROCESS::station\fP[NMXP_DATA_STATION_LENGTH]"
.PP
Station code. 
.SS "char \fBNMXP_DATA_PROCESS::channel\fP[NMXP_DATA_CHANNEL_LENGTH]"
.PP
Channel code. 
.SS "int32_t \fBNMXP_DATA_PROCESS::packet_type\fP"
.PP
Packet type. 
.SS "int32_t \fBNMXP_DATA_PROCESS::x0\fP"
.PP
First sample. It is significant only if x0n_significant != 0. 
.SS "int32_t \fBNMXP_DATA_PROCESS::xn\fP"
.PP
Last sample. It is significant only if x0n_significant != 0. 
.SS "int32_t \fBNMXP_DATA_PROCESS::x0n_significant\fP"
.PP
Declare if xn significant. 
.SS "int32_t \fBNMXP_DATA_PROCESS::oldest_seq_no\fP"
.PP
Oldest Sequence number. 
.SS "int32_t \fBNMXP_DATA_PROCESS::seq_no\fP"
.PP
Sequence number. 
.SS "double \fBNMXP_DATA_PROCESS::time\fP"
.PP
Time first sample. Epochs. 
.SS "int* \fBNMXP_DATA_PROCESS::pDataPtr\fP"
.PP
Array of samples. 
.SS "int32_t \fBNMXP_DATA_PROCESS::nSamp\fP"
.PP
Number or samples. 
.SS "int32_t \fBNMXP_DATA_PROCESS::sampRate\fP"
.PP
Sample rate. 
.SS "int \fBNMXP_DATA_PROCESS::timing_quality\fP"
.PP
Timing quality for functions send_raw*() 
.SS "char \fBNMXP_DATA_PROCESS::quality_indicator\fP"
.PP
Quality indicator D, R, Q or M, new in Seed 2.4. 

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libnmxp from the source code.
