.TH "page__english__version" 3 "16 Mar 2010" "Version 1.2.4" "libnmxp" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
page__english__version \-  Matteo Quintiliani
.PP
 \fI Istituto Nazionale di Geofisica e Vulcanologia
.br
 Centro Nazionale Terremoti \fP
.PP
 e-mail: quintiliani@ingv.it 
.PP
\fBTodo\fP
.RS 4
.IP "\(bu" 2
Extend english version
.PP
.RE
.PP
.SH "Introduction"
.PP
This is the documentation for the \fIAPIs\fP that implement the \fCNanometrics Protocols\fP. They have been developed for interacting with \fCNaqsServer\fP and \fCDataServer\fP.
.PP
The Nanometrics \fCNaqsServer\fP provides online access to time-series, serial data, triggers, and state-of-health data via TCP subscription.
.PP
The Nanometrics \fCDataServer\fP provides local and remote access to nanometrics, serial, and state-of-health data via TCP/IP.
.PP
The library offers APIs to: 
.PD 0

.IP "\(bu" 2
interact with \fCNaqsServer\fP that uses version 1.4 of the \fIPrivate Data Stream Protocol\fP 
.IP "\(bu" 2
interact with \fCDataServer\fP that uses version 1.0 of the \fINanometrics Data Access Protocol\fP 
.IP "\(bu" 2
manage Nanometrics data formats 
.IP "\(bu" 2
request, receive and interpret online and offline data
.PP
moreover, you can use them to develop software to: 
.PD 0

.IP "\(bu" 2
analyze data in realtime (waveforms, triggers, ...) 
.IP "\(bu" 2
retrieve and convert on the fly data into the mini-SEED records (optional) 
.IP "\(bu" 2
feed SeedLink server (optional) 
.IP "\(bu" 2
feed Earthworm system (optional)
.PP
.SH "Dependencies"
.PP
An optional library is needed to allow \fClibnmxp\fP to save mini-SEED records:
.PP
.PD 0
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fClibmseed:\fP http://www.iris.edu/manuals/
.br
 The Mini-SEED library. A C library framework for manipulating and managing SEED data records.
.br
 Author: Chad Trabant, \fIIRIS DMC\fP
.br

.PP
.SH "Installation"
.PP
\fCnmxp\fP library has been developed using \fIGNU Build Tools\fP (\fCautomake\fP, \fCautoconf\fP and \fCconfigure\fP script) taking in account the POSIX Cross-Platform aspects. So you should be able to compile and install it everywhere you can launch the following commands:
.PP
\fC./configure\fP
.PP
\fCmake\fP
.PP
\fCmake install\fP
.PP
Please, refer to the file \fBREADME\fP and \fBINSTALL\fP for more details.
.SH "Tools"
.PP
Inside the distribution is available a tool which is a client that interact with \fCNaqsServer\fP and \fCDataServer\fP.
.PP
\fCnmxptool:\fP 
.PD 0

.IP "\(bu" 2
implements the \fINanometrics Private Data Stream Protocol 1.4\fP and permits to retrieve data in near-realtime.
.br
 
.IP "\(bu" 2
implements the \fINanometrics Data Access Protocol 1.0\fP and permits to retrieve backward data.
.br
 Please, refer to the \fBREADME\fP file or help \fCnmxptool --help\fP.
.PP
.SS "Examples"
etc...
.SH "License"
.PP
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.SH "About"
.PP
Matteo Quintiliani - \fIIstituto Nazionale di Geofisica e Vulcanologia\fP - Italy
.br
 Mail bug reports and suggestions to <quintiliani@ingv.it> 
